# FunGen

FunGen is a Python-based tool that uses AI to generate Funscript files from VR and 2D POV videos. It enables fully automated funscript creation for individual scenes or entire folders of videos.

Join the **Discord community** for discussions and support: [Discord Community](https://discord.gg/WYkjMbtCZA)

Note: The necessary YOLO models will also be available via the Discord.

---

### DISCLAIMER

This project is still at the early stages of development. It is not intended for commercial use. Please, do not use this project for any commercial purposes without prior consent from the author. It is for individual use only.

---

## Prerequisites

Before using this project, ensure you have the following installed:

- **Python 3.8 or higher (tested on 3.11 https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-3118/)**
- **FFmpeg** added to your PATH or specified under the settings menu (https://www.ffmpeg.org/download.html)
- **Miniconda** (https://www.anaconda.com/docs/getting-started/miniconda/install)

# Installation

### Clone the repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ack00gar/FunGen-AI-Powered-Funscript-Generator.git FunGen
cd FunGen
```

### Start a miniconda command prompt
After installing Miniconda look for a program called "Anaconda prompt (miniconda3)"
Then navigate to the root folder of the project for example on windows (correct the path):
```
cd /d C:\path\to\fungenfolder
```

### If your GPU supports CUDA (NVIDIA)

```bash
conda create -n VRFunAIGen python=3.11
conda activate VRFunAIGen
pip install -r core.requirements.txt
pip install -r cuda.requirements.txt
pip install tensorrt
python FSGenerator.py
```

### If your GPU doesn't support cuda

```bash
conda create -n VRFunAIGen python=3.11
conda activate VRFunAIGen
pip install -r core.requirements.txt
pip install -r cpu.requirements.txt
python FSGenerator.py
```

## Download the YOLO model
Go to our discord to download the latest YOLO model for free. When downloaded place the YOLO model file(s) in the `models/` sub-directory. If you aren't sure you can add all the models and let the app decide the best option for you.

We support multiple model formats across Windows, macOS, and Linux.

### Recommendations
- NVIDIA Cards: we recommend the .engine model
- AMD Cards: we recommend .pt (requires ROCm see below)
- Mac: we recommend .mlmodel

### Models
- **.pt (PyTorch)**: Requires CUDA (for NVIDIA GPUs) or ROCm (for AMD GPUs) for acceleration.
- **.onnx (ONNX Runtime)**: Best for CPU users as it offers broad compatibility and efficiency.
- **.engine (TensorRT)**: For NVIDIA GPUs: Provides very significant efficiency improvements (this file needs to be build by running "Generate TensorRT.bat" after adding the base ".pt" model to the models directory)
- **.mlmodel (Core ML)**: Optimized for macOS users. Runs efficiently on Apple devices with Core ML.

In most cases, the app will automatically detect the best model from your models directory at launch, but if the right model wasn't present at this time or the right dependencies where not installed, you might need to override it under settings. The same applies when we release a new version of the model.


### AMD GPU acceleration
Coming soon

## GUI Settings
Find the settings menu in the app to configure optional option.

## Start script

You can use Start windows.bat to launch the gui on windows.

---

# Command Line Usage

FunGen supports a GUI for all it's features but we also provide command line usage for those who prefer this. 
Below are some examples on how to generate script with the command line:

**To generate a single script with cmd or terminal, run the following command**

```bash
python -m script_generator.cli.generate_funscript_single /path/to/video.mp4
```

See examples/windows/Process single video.bat for an example

**To generate scripts for all files in a folder use**

```bash
python -m script_generator.cli.generate_funscript_folder /path/to/folder
```

See examples/windows/Process folder.bat for an example

## Command-Line Arguments
Note that these commands will never replace funscripts not generated by this app. Also, for settings that are not overwritten by flags the values from the GUI will be used. 

### Command-Line Arguments (Single file)
**Required**
- **`video_path`** Path to the input video file

### Command-Line Arguments (Folder mode)
**Required**
- **`folder_path`** Path to the video folder (required).

**Optional**
- **`--replace-outdated`** Will regenerate outdated funscripts.
- **`--replace-up-to-date`** Will regenerate funscripts that are up to date and made by this app too.
- **`--num-workers`** Number of subprocesses to run in parallel. If you have beefy hardware 4 seems to be the sweet spot but technically your VRAM is the limit.


### Command-Line Arguments (Shared)
These arguments are used by both single file and folder mode
- **`--reuse-yolo`** Re-use an existing raw YOLO output file instead of generating a new one when available.
- **`--copy-funscript`** Copies the final funscript to the movie directory.
- **`--save-debug-file`** Saves a debug file to disk with all collected metrics. Also allows you to re-use tracking data.

**Funscript Tweaking Settings**
- **`--boost-enabled`** Enable boosting to adjust the motion range dynamically.
- **`--boost-up-percent`** Increase the peaks by a specified percentage to enhance upper motion limits.
- **`--boost-down-percent`** Reduce the lower peaks by a specified percentage to limit downward motion.
- **`--threshold-enabled`** Enable thresholding to control motion mapping within specified bounds.
- **`--threshold-low`** Values below this threshold are mapped to 0, limiting lower boundary motion.
- **`--threshold-high`** Values above this threshold are mapped to 100, limiting upper boundary motion.
- **`--vw-simplification-enabled`** Simplify the generated script to reduce the number of points, making it user-friendly.
- **`--vw-factor`** Determines the degree of simplification. Higher values lead to fewer points.
- **`--rounding`** Set the rounding factor for script values to adjust precision.


---

# Performance & Parallel Processing

Our pipeline's current bottleneck lies in the Python code within YOLO.track (the object detection library we use), which is challenging to parallelize effectively in a single process.

However, when you have high-performance hardware you can use the command line (see above) to processes multiple videos simultaneously. Alternatively you can launch multiple instances of the GUI.

We tested speeds of about 60 to 110 fps for 8k 8bit vr videos when running a single process. Which translates to faster then realtime processing already. However, running in parallel mode we tested
speeds of about 160 to 190 frames per second (for object detection). Meaning processing times of about 20 to 30 minutes for 8bit 8k VR videos for the complete process. More then twice the speed of realtime!

Keep in mind your results may vary as this is very dependent on your hardware. Cuda capable cards will have an advantage here. However, since the pipeline is largely CPU and video decode bottlenecked
a top of the line card like the 4090 is not required to get similar results. Having enough VRAM to run 3-6 processes, paired with a good CPU, will speed things up considerably though.

**Important considerations:**

- Each instance requires the YOLO model to load which means you'll need to keep checks on your VRAM to see how many you can load.
- The optimal number of instances depends on a combination of factors, including your CPU, GPU, RAM, and system configuration. So experiment with different setups to find the ideal configuration for your hardware! 😊

---

# Miscellaneous

- For VR only sbs (side by side) **Fisheye** and **Equirectangular** 180° videos are supported at the moment
- 2D POV videos are supported but work best when they are centered properly
- 2D / VR is automatically detected as is fisheye / equirectangular and FOV (make sure you keep the file format information in the filename _FISHEYE190, _MKX200, _LR_180, etc.)
- Detection settings can also be overwritten in the UI if the app doesn't detect it properly

---

# Output Files

The script generates the following files in the output directory of you project folder:

1. `_rawyolo.msgpack`: Raw YOLO detection data. Can be re-used when re-generating scripts
2. `_rawfunscript.json`: Raw Funscript data. Can be re-used when re-generating script with different settings.
3. `.funscript`: Final Funscript file.
4. `_metrics.msgpack`: Contains all the raw metrics collected and can be used to debug your video when processing is completed.

Optional files

1. `_heatmap.png`: Heatmap visualization of the Funscript data.
2. `_comparefunscripts.png`: Comparison visualization between the generated Funscript and the reference Funscript (if provided).
3. `_adjusted.funscript`: Funscript file with adjusted amplitude.

---

# About the project

## Pipeline Overview

The pipeline for generating Funscript files is as follows:

1. **YOLO Object Detection**: A YOLO model detects relevant objects (e.g., penis, hands, mouth, etc.) in each frame of the video. 
2. **Tracking Algorithm**: A custom tracking algorithm processes the YOLO detection results to track the positions of objects over time. The algorithm calculates distances and interactions between objects to determine the Funscript positions.
3. **Funscript Generation**: The tracked data is used to generate a raw Funscript file.
4. **Simplifier**: The raw Funscript data is simplified to remove noise and smooth out the motion resulting in a final `.funscript` file.


## Project Genesis and Evolution

This project started as a dream to automate Funscript generation for VR videos. Here’s a brief history of its development:

- **Initial Approach (OpenCV Trackers)**: The first version relied on OpenCV trackers to detect and track objects in the video. While functional, the approach was slow (8–20 FPS) and struggled with occlusions and complex scenes.
- **Transition to YOLO**: To improve accuracy and speed, the project shifted to using YOLO object detection. A custom YOLO model was trained on a dataset of 1000nds annotated VR video frames, significantly improving detection quality.
- **Original Post**: For more details and discussions, check out the original post on EroScripts:  
  [VR Funscript Generation Helper (Python + CV/AI)](https://discuss.eroscripts.com/t/vr-funscript-generation-helper-python-now-cv-ai/202554)

----

# Contributing

Contributions are welcome! If you'd like to contribute, please follow these steps:

1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a new branch for your feature or bug fix.
3. Commit your changes.
4. Submit a pull request.

---

# License

This project is licensed under the **Non-Commercial License**. You are free to use the software for personal, non-commercial purposes only. Commercial use, redistribution, or modification for commercial purposes is strictly prohibited without explicit permission from the copyright holder.

This project is not intended for commercial use, nor for generating and distributing in a commercial environment.

For commercial use, please contact me.

See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for full details.

---

# Acknowledgments

- **YOLO**: Thanks to the Ultralytics team for the YOLO implementation.
- **FFmpeg**: For video processing capabilities.
- **Eroscripts Community**: For the inspiration and use cases.

---

# Support

If you encounter any issues or have questions, please open an issue on GitHub.

Join the **Discord community** for discussions and support:  
[Discord Community](https://discord.gg/WYkjMbtCZA)

---
